README.md, before:

# Game Data Extractor and Desynced Wiki Upload

A set of scripts for exporting game data from [Desynced](https://www.desyncedgame.com/) lua files and importing it into the [Desynced Wiki](https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Main_Page).

## Setup

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage overview
Steps:
- 1 - [Get game files](#pull-game-data-from-steam)  
  Get the game "main" mod. Either using script (`python fetch_main_from_steam.py --help`) or from steam installation.
- 2 - [Generate wiki files](#generate-wiki-files)  
  Generate wiki files from the game files (`python generate_wiki.py --help`)
- 3 - [Update Wiki](#wiki-upload)  
  Upload files to Wiki.

## Game Data Extraction

### Pull game data from steam 
(currently broken, you can skip this step and use your regular steam game installation.)
See: `fetch_main_from_steam.py`.  

Script will:  
1) Login to steam using provided credentials in config. 
     - Steam account must have a valid purchase of desynced.
2) Downloads `main.zip` from the steam depot.
3) Unzips into a directory for use by generate script.

### Generate wiki files
See: `generate_wiki.py`.

The script will:
1) Evaluates a subset of game files (path provided in argument) in a lua environment.
2) Traverses the `data` tree to parse out necessary information.
3) Outputs wiki templates and data to `--wiki-output-directory` structured by category.

#### Workflow

1) For each cargo table to create in the wiki, there should be a model in `models`.
2) Once you have it modeled as you'd like, update `lua/game_data.py` to build the models and store them.
3) Update `generate_wiki.py` to create templates based on this new model and the collection of them you built in `GameData`.

#### Special Table

There exists a special table which is defined in `wiki/include/Template/DataTableIndex`. This table is used to figure out which table a given name belongs to. This means that, for example, a `Recipe` template on the wiki can just take a name, query the `TableIndex` to find which table the name lives in, then query that table using the name.

This is especially useful for wiki templates like `Recipe` which are shared across many different types of objects.

NOTE: Every `Data` page uploaded contains a directive to `store` in the table index.

#### Models

In order to make adding new data as easy as possible, the heavy lifting for how fields should be named and formatted is done by the two files in `wiki/cargo`: `analyze_type.py` and `cargo_printer.py`.

Models are created from dataclasses (proxied via `@desynced_object`) and just declare the fields they'd like to appear in the table. Lets take a simple example with `Technology`:

```python
@desynced_object
class Technology:
    name: str
    description: str
    category: str
    texture: str
    # List of required techs by name.
    required_tech: List[str] = annotate(ListFieldOptions(max_length=3))
    # Number of times uplink_recipe must be completed.
    progress_count: int
    uplink_recipe: Recipe
```

This model is automatically converted into a cargo table definition like the following:
```
<noinclude>
[[Category:Data:TableDefinition]]
{{#cargo_declare:
_table=tech
|name = String
|description = String
|category = String
|texture = String
|requiredTech1 = String
|requiredTech2 = String
|requiredTech3 = String
|progressCount = Integer
|ingredient1 = String
|amount1 = Integer
|ingredient2 = String
|amount2 = Integer
|ingredient3 = String
|amount3 = Integer
|ingredient4 = String
|amount4 = Integer
|producer1 = String
|time1 = Float
|producer2 = String
|time2 = Float
|recipeType = String (allowed values=Construction,Production,Uplink)
|numProduced = Integer
}}</noinclude>
<includeonly>
{{#cargo_store:
_table=tech
|name = {{{name}}}
|description = {{{description}}}
|category = {{{category}}}
|texture = {{{texture}}}
|requiredTech1 = {{{requiredTech1}}}
|requiredTech2 = {{{requiredTech2}}}
|requiredTech3 = {{{requiredTech3}}}
|progressCount = {{{progressCount}}}
|ingredient1 = {{{ingredient1}}}
|amount1 = {{{amount1}}}
|ingredient2 = {{{ingredient2}}}
|amount2 = {{{amount2}}}
|ingredient3 = {{{ingredient3}}}
|amount3 = {{{amount3}}}
|ingredient4 = {{{ingredient4}}}
|amount4 = {{{amount4}}}
|producer1 = {{{producer1}}}
|time1 = {{{time1}}}
|producer2 = {{{producer2}}}
|time2 = {{{time2}}}
|recipeType = {{{recipeType}}}
|numProduced = {{{numProduced}}}
}}</includeonly>
```

Notice a few things:
1) The `Recipe` in `uplink_recipe` was automatically flattened into the main structure, and the lists inside were expanded into their own fields.  
2) The list of techs in `required_tech` was expanded to have an entry for each field.
    - The number of entries for each list is described by a field annotation  

```python
    required_tech: List[str] = annotate(ListFieldOptions(max_length=3))
```
TODO(maz): Make this dynamically figure out list length from the longest list that appears in the game data.

There are a number of other useful decorator options in `models/decorators_options.py`.

### Prune hidden data script

Used to prune hidden game data? Like bugs units. Is that generated atm?    

## Wiki Upload

See: `upload_wiki.py`

1) Reads the set of files in `--input-directory`
2) For files in `--input-directory` in `Template` uploads them as templates (cargo table definitions).
3) For files in `--input-directory` in `Data` uploads them to their own pages which each invoke the template created by the files in the `Template` directory.

## Schema Change Process

`upload_wiki.py` does all of the following steps for you, though you must have the correct permissions on the wiki.

1) Upload the templates
2) For each template that changed (or all of them), trigger recreate of the table on the wiki, using a new table
3) Upload the data using the new templates

New tables/data must be swapped in at https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:CargoTables manually. If it didn't work, delete the temporary table and try again.

TODO(maz): Add specific flags for force recreating data.

### Extra manual things

- You might have to handle new name collisions. Script should stop and error out if it detects one.  
  Most of that should be handled by adding entries to `WIKI_NAME_OVERRIDES`.  
- Many pages like https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Instructions will need to be edited if a new category is added.  
- Currently new images are not added automatically.

### Steam & Wiki Credentials

Copy `config.ini.example` to `config.ini` and update your credentials as needed.  
Steam credentials are needed to download the game assets.  
Wiki credentials are needed for the import process.  

This file is already ignored by git.

### Useful links

- Cargo tables list: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:CargoTables
- Browse all cargo tables data: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:Drilldown/  
- One data page example: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/index.php?title=Data:Item:Infected_Circuit_Board&redirect=no
- Special pages: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:SpecialPages
- List all templates: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:PrefixIndex?prefix=Template%3A&namespace=0

## Disclaimer

Please note that this repository and its contents are not officially related to or endorsed by Desynced or Stage Games.

Commit message:

Don't exclude entities without sockets

README.md, after:

# Game Data Extractor and Desynced Wiki Upload

A set of scripts for exporting game data from [Desynced](https://www.desyncedgame.com/) lua files and importing it into the [Desynced Wiki](https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Main_Page).

## Setup

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage overview
Steps:
- 1 - [Get game files](#pull-game-data-from-steam)  
  Get the game "main" mod. Either using script (`python fetch_main_from_steam.py --help`) or from steam installation.
- 2 - [Generate wiki files](#generate-wiki-files)  
  Generate wiki files from the game files (`python generate_wiki.py --help`)
- 3 - [Update Wiki](#wiki-upload)  
  Upload files to Wiki.

## Game Data Extraction

### Pull game data from steam 
(currently broken, you can skip this step and use your regular steam game installation.)
See: `fetch_main_from_steam.py`.  

Script will:  
1) Login to steam using provided credentials in config. 
     - Steam account must have a valid purchase of desynced.
2) Downloads `main.zip` from the steam depot.
3) Unzips into a directory for use by generate script.

### Generate wiki files
See: `generate_wiki.py`.

The script will:
1) Evaluates a subset of game files (path provided in argument) in a lua environment.
2) Traverses the `data` tree to parse out necessary information.
3) Outputs wiki templates and data to `--wiki-output-directory` structured by category.

#### Workflow

1) For each cargo table to create in the wiki, there should be a model in `models`.
2) Once you have it modeled as you'd like, update `lua/game_data.py` to build the models and store them.
3) Update `generate_wiki.py` to create templates based on this new model and the collection of them you built in `GameData`.

#### Special Table

There exists a special table which is defined in `wiki/include/Template/DataTableIndex`. This table is used to figure out which table a given name belongs to. This means that, for example, a `Recipe` template on the wiki can just take a name, query the `TableIndex` to find which table the name lives in, then query that table using the name.

This is especially useful for wiki templates like `Recipe` which are shared across many different types of objects.

NOTE: Every `Data` page uploaded contains a directive to `store` in the table index.

#### Models

In order to make adding new data as easy as possible, the heavy lifting for how fields should be named and formatted is done by the two files in `wiki/cargo`: `analyze_type.py` and `cargo_printer.py`.

Models are created from dataclasses (proxied via `@desynced_object`) and just declare the fields they'd like to appear in the table. Lets take a simple example with `Technology`:

```python
@desynced_object
class Technology:
    name: str
    description: str
    category: str
    texture: str
    # List of required techs by name.
    required_tech: List[str] = annotate(ListFieldOptions(max_length=3))
    # Number of times uplink_recipe must be completed.
    progress_count: int
    uplink_recipe: Recipe
```

This model is automatically converted into a cargo table definition like the following:
```
<noinclude>
[[Category:Data:TableDefinition]]
{{#cargo_declare:
_table=tech
|name = String
|description = String
|category = String
|texture = String
|requiredTech1 = String
|requiredTech2 = String
|requiredTech3 = String
|progressCount = Integer
|ingredient1 = String
|amount1 = Integer
|ingredient2 = String
|amount2 = Integer
|ingredient3 = String
|amount3 = Integer
|ingredient4 = String
|amount4 = Integer
|producer1 = String
|time1 = Float
|producer2 = String
|time2 = Float
|recipeType = String (allowed values=Construction,Production,Uplink)
|numProduced = Integer
}}</noinclude>
<includeonly>
{{#cargo_store:
_table=tech
|name = {{{name}}}
|description = {{{description}}}
|category = {{{category}}}
|texture = {{{texture}}}
|requiredTech1 = {{{requiredTech1}}}
|requiredTech2 = {{{requiredTech2}}}
|requiredTech3 = {{{requiredTech3}}}
|progressCount = {{{progressCount}}}
|ingredient1 = {{{ingredient1}}}
|amount1 = {{{amount1}}}
|ingredient2 = {{{ingredient2}}}
|amount2 = {{{amount2}}}
|ingredient3 = {{{ingredient3}}}
|amount3 = {{{amount3}}}
|ingredient4 = {{{ingredient4}}}
|amount4 = {{{amount4}}}
|producer1 = {{{producer1}}}
|time1 = {{{time1}}}
|producer2 = {{{producer2}}}
|time2 = {{{time2}}}
|recipeType = {{{recipeType}}}
|numProduced = {{{numProduced}}}
}}</includeonly>
```

Notice a few things:
1) The `Recipe` in `uplink_recipe` was automatically flattened into the main structure, and the lists inside were expanded into their own fields.  
2) The list of techs in `required_tech` was expanded to have an entry for each field.
    - The number of entries for each list is described by a field annotation  

```python
    required_tech: List[str] = annotate(ListFieldOptions(max_length=3))
```
TODO(maz): Make this dynamically figure out list length from the longest list that appears in the game data.

There are a number of other useful decorator options in `models/decorators_options.py`.

## Wiki Upload

See: `upload_wiki.py`

1) Reads the set of files in `--input-directory`
2) For files in `--input-directory` in `Template` uploads them as templates (cargo table definitions).
3) For files in `--input-directory` in `Data` uploads them to their own pages which each invoke the template created by the files in the `Template` directory.

## Schema Change Process

`upload_wiki.py` does all of the following steps for you, though you must have the correct permissions on the wiki.

1) Upload the templates
2) For each template that changed (or all of them), trigger recreate of the table on the wiki, using a new table
3) Upload the data using the new templates

New tables/data must be swapped in at https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:CargoTables manually. If it didn't work, delete the temporary table and try again.

TODO(maz): Add specific flags for force recreating data.

### Extra manual things

- You might have to handle new name collisions. Script should stop and error out if it detects one.  
  Most of that should be handled by adding entries to `WIKI_NAME_OVERRIDES`.  
- By default, only entities that are unlockable by players are included. You can force extra inclusions by adding names in `FORCE_INCLUDE_NAMES`.  
- Many pages like https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Instructions will need to be edited if a new category is added.  
- Currently new images are not added automatically.

### Steam & Wiki Credentials

Copy `config.ini.example` to `config.ini` and update your credentials as needed.  
Steam credentials are needed to download the game assets.  
Wiki credentials are needed for the import process.  

This file is already ignored by git.

## Helper scripts

- `python -m cli_tools/create_missing_pages`
- 

## Useful links

- Cargo tables list: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:CargoTables
- Browse all cargo tables data: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:Drilldown/  
- One data page example: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/index.php?title=Data:Item:Infected_Circuit_Board&redirect=no
- Special pages: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:SpecialPages
- List all templates: https://wiki.desyncedgame.com/Special:PrefixIndex?prefix=Template%3A&namespace=0

## Disclaimer

Please note that this repository and its contents are not officially related to or endorsed by Desynced or Stage Games.
